In-Memory Evasion
In-Memory Injections, also known as
PE Injection,
is a popular technique used to bypass
antivirus products.
Rather than obfuscating a malicious
binary, creating new sections,
or changing existing permissions,
this technique instead focuses on the
manipulation of volatile memory.
One of the main benefits of this
technique is that it does not write any
files to disk, which is one the main
areas of focus for most
antivirus products.
Remote Process Memory Injection attempts
to inject the payload into another valid
PE that is not malicious.
The most common method of doing this is
by leverging a set of Windows APIs.
Once the memory has been allocated in the
remote process,
we can copy the malicious payload to the
newly allocated memory.
After the payload has been successfully
copied, it is usually executed
in memory in a separate thread using the
CreateRemoteThread API.
Unlike regular DLL injection, which
implies loading a malicious DLL from disk
using the LoadLibrary API, Reflective DLL
Injection attempts to load a DLL stored
by the attacker in the process memory.
The main challenge of implementing this
technique is that LoadLibrary does not
support loading a DLL from memory.
Furthermore, the Windows operating system
does not expose any API’s that can handle
this.
Attackers who choose to use this
technique must write their own version of
the API that does not rely on a
disk-based DLL.
When using Process Hollowing to bypass
antivirus software,
attackers first launch a non-malicious
process in a suspended state.
Once launched, the image of the process
is removed from memory and replaced with
a malicious executable image.
Finally, the process is then resumed and
malicious code is executed instead of
the legitimate process.
Inline Hooking involves modifying memory
and introducing a hook,
or instructions that redirect the code
execution,
into a function to point the execution
flow to our malicious code.
Upon executing our malicious code,
the flow will return back to the modified
function and resume execution,
appearing as if only the original code
had executed.